THE LAST OF US
10 MILES WEST OF BOSTON
You want your jacket back?
I've never been in the woods.
More bugs than I thought.
-Look, I've been thinking about--
-I don't want your sorries.
I wasn't gonna say I'm sorry.
I was gonna say that I've been
thinking about what happened.
Nobody made you or Tess take me.
Nobody made you go along with this plan.
You needed a truck battery or whatever
and you made a choice.
So don't blame me
for something that isn't my fault.
How much longer?
Five-hour hike.
We can manage that.
You've gone this way a lot?
-No Infected?
-Not often, no.
What are you looking out for?
People.
-Are Bill and Frank nice?
-Frank is.
How'd you get that scar on your head?
What? Is it something lame?
Like you fell down the stairs
or something?
-I didn't fall down any stairs.
-Okay, so what then?
Someone shot at me and missed.
See, that's cool.
You shoot back?
-Yeah.
-You get him?
No, I missed, too.
It happens more often than you think.
'Cause you suck at shooting
or, like, in general?
In general.
You know, seeing as
it's just the two of us,
-I was thinking I should pro--
-No.
Cumberland Farms.
Hang back a minute.
I gotta grab some stuff I stashed.
CUMBERLAND
FARMS
Stashed?
Why do you have stuff stashed here?
You ask a lot of goddamn questions.
Yes, I do.
So, are you gonna answer me or what?
We hide supplies on routes
in case we find ourselves
short on gear,
-which I currently am 'cause--
-No way!
You ever play this one?
MORTAL KOMBAT II
I had a friend who knew
everything about this game.
There's this one character
named Mileena who takes off her mask
and she has monster teeth
and then she swallows you whole
and barfs out your bones.
Oh, man.
LIFESAVERS
You forgot where you put your stuff.
No, I'm just zeroing in on it.
-It's been a couple of years.
-Okay, well, I'm gonna
take a look around,
see if there's anything good.
Trust me,
it's all been picked over already.
Maybe, maybe not.
-Is there anything bad in here?
-Just you.
Getting funnier.
Fuck.
-You all right back there?
-Yep!
TAMPAX
PEARL
Fuck yeah.
Ellie?
Ellie!
NO
SMOKING
Ellie?
Picked over, my ass.
TAMPAX
PEARL
What are you doing?
There's not much ammo
out there for this thing.
Makes it mostly useless.
Well, if you're just gonna leave it there.
No.
Holy shit.
You fly in one of those?
-Few times, sure.
-So lucky.
Didn't feel like it at the time.
Get shoved into a middle seat,
pay 12 bucks for a sandwich.
Dude, you got to go up in the sky.
Yeah, well, so did they.
Grim.
So everything came
crashing down in one day?
-Pretty much.
-How?
I mean, no one was infected
with Cordyceps,
everybody's fine,
eating in restaurants
and flying in planes.
And then, all at once?
How did it even start?
If you have to get bit to be infected,
then who bit the first person?
Was it a monkey?
I bet it was a monkey.
It wasn't a monkey.
I thought you went to school.
FEDRA school.
They don't teach us
how their shitty government
failed to prevent a pandemic.
No one knows for sure,
but, best guess,
Cordyceps mutated.
And some of it got into the food supply.
Probably a basic ingredient
like flour or sugar.
There were certain brands of food
that were sold everywhere,
all across the country, across the world.
Bread, cereal, pancake mix.
You eat enough of it,
it'll get you infected.
So the tainted food
all hits the store shelves
around the same time, Thursday.
People bought it,
ate some Thursday night or Friday morning.
Day goes on, they started to get sick.
Afternoon, evening, they got worse.
Then they started bitin'.
Friday night, September 26, 2003.
And by Monday, everything was gone.
It makes more sense
than monkeys.
Thanks.
Sure.
What?
-We'll cut across the woods here.
-Isn't the road easier?
Yeah, it's just--
There's stuff up there you shouldn't see.
-Well, now I have to see.
-I don't want you to.
Serious. Ellie.
Can it hurt me?
No.
You're too honest, man.
Should've said axe murderer.
Whatever it was,
think it's gone.
About a week after Outbreak Day,
soldiers
went through the countryside,
evacuated the small towns.
Told you you were goin' to a QZ,
and you were,
if there was room.
If there wasn't.
These people weren't sick?
No, probably not.
Why kill them?
Why not just leave 'em be?
Dead people can't be infected.
SEPTEMBER 30th, 2003
Mommy's here. Mommy's here.
No, sir. We're in the basement now.
There's no one here.
Let's check back with the others.
Not today, you New World Order
jackboot fucks.
MANDATORY EVACUATION NOTICE
PLEASE FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS
OF DESIGNATED AUTHORITIES
GUNS & AMMO
SULFURIC ACID
DANGER
MASSACHUSETTS
THE SPIRIT OF AMERICA
SUPREME 91
PUSH TO START
EXXON
TOTAL $
GALLONS
THE
HOME DEPOT
TOILET REPAIR
TUB & SHOWER
That was fast.
DANGER
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY
NEW BEDFORD GAS
NATURAL GAS PLANT
LINCOLN
WINE & SPIRITS
CAYMUS
VINEYARDS
Keep comin'.
It doesn't get old.
DANGER
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY
FOUR YEARS LATER
DON'T TREAD ON ME
JOIN OR DIE
I'm not infected!
Are you armed?
-No.
-Why did you take that long to answer?
I don't know.
I thought about lying for some reason,
but a reason didn't come.
Look, I'm just trying to get to Boston.
Alone?
We started with 10.
But yeah, I'm alone.
From where?
Baltimore QZ.
It's gone.
Are ya hurt?
There's just a bruise.
Oh fuck.
Stop there.
How'd you get that?
Boston is that way.
-You can make it by nightfall.
-I'm really hungry.
I haven't eaten in two days.
It doesn't sound very
long out loud, does it?
-It feels long.
-I'm letting you go, so go.
All right, look.
-First, my name's Frank--
-Oh, yeah?
Here's the thing, Frank.
If I feed you,
then every bum you talk to about it
is gonna show up here
lookin' for a free lunch,
and this is not an Arby's.
Well, Arby's didn't have free lunch.
It was a restaurant.
I won't talk about it to any bums,
or hobos or vagabonds, I promise.
You already know I'm bad at lying.
I left some clothes here for ya.
What?
Clothes!
Thank you! Almost done.
Although can I have five more minutes?
Sure.
Sure!
Thank you! This is amazing!
What the fuck?
Everything tastes good
when you're starving.
Yeah, but not like this.
My God.
BEAUJOLAIS VILLAGES
A man who knows to pair rabbit
with a Beaujolais.
I know I don't seem like the type.
No, you do.
-There is more, if--
-No, I can't.
I want to, believe me.
But...
Thank you.
You're welcome.
So, I guess I'll be going then.
But first.
I've been staring at this the whole time.
-Is it antique?
-1948.
Wow.
You know how much these are worth?
Currently, nothing.
"Fur Elise." "Tales of Hoffmann"?
Yuck.
-These aren't yours.
-My mother's. Could you not--
This is you.
Oh, my God, It's my favorite.
THE BEST OF LINDA RONSTADT
No. No. No, no, no, no.
No, thank you. Sorry.
-Not this song. Not this song.
-Well, I'm not a professional.
Well, neither am I, but--
And then I'll leave.
So, who's the girl?
Girl you're singing about?
There is no girl.
I know.
What's your name?
Bill.
Go take a shower, Bill.
Okay.
Have you ever done this before?
Not with anyone?
-With a girl a long time ago--
-Yeah, I know, so.
I'm gonna start with the simple things.
-Okay.
But before I do, I want you to know
that I'm not a whore.
I don't have sex for lunches,
not even great ones.
So, if I do this,
I am gonna stay for a few more days.
Is that okay?
Yeah.
Yes.
Fuck you!
Come on!
THREE YEARS LATER
Hey! Would you stop?
Do I ask for things? Ever?
Why am I even saying that?
This isn't for me.
This is for us.
Who cares what they look like?
I do!
Our home isn't just our house.
It's everything around us!
-Give me a fuckin' break!
-I'm sorry, I forgot.
I live in this world.
You live in a psycho bunker
where 9/11 was an inside job
and the government are all Nazis.
-The government are all Nazis!
-Well, yeah, now! But not then!
I am asking for some paint
and some gasoline for the lawnmower.
That's all.
I'll do everything else myself.
-It is not a mat--
-Bill, if you say "resource management,"
so help me,
I will run through one of your trip wires.
Okay, okay.
-Just tell me why.
-I did.
Paying attention to things,
it's how we show love.
This is my street, too.
Just let me love it the way I want to.
And I'm fixing up some of the shops.
Not the stupid ones.
Just the wine shop
and the furniture store.
And the clothing boutique.
The boutique?
Are we hosting
formal garden parties now?
No.
But we are gonna have friends.
Excuse me?
We're gonna make friends,
and we will invite them to visit.
We don't have friends, Frank.
We will never have friends
because there are no friends to be had.
Well, I've actually
been talking to a nice woman on the radio.
You what?
Well, this really is just-- it's amazing.
Right?
Can you not, please?
-I'm the same way.
-You're a paranoid schizophrenic, too?
I'm not schizophrenic.
Well, can I just say, gun aside,
which I get, by the way,
how nice this is to have a civilized meal
in such a beautiful place?
It's been so long.
I mean, I wanna thank you.
Even if we don't end up working together.
I really needed this.
We are working together.
We are.
You know what? Let's go inside.
Tess, I wanna show you something.
-I have been wanting to see inside.
-Bring your wine.
-Not inside.
-Thank you.
-Yes.
-Frank.
Frank!
I understand.
If my,
if mine,
brought strangers into our situation,
I wouldn't be happy either.
But of all the people
he could've found on the radio,
we're actually
decent people just tryin' to get by.
Well, aren't I the lucky one?
There's stuff we have in the QZ
that you don't have here.
Books, medicine, machine parts.
We can help each other,
and get that gun outta my face.
So, what, you were a
prepper or somethin'?
"Survivalist."
Maybe you are decent people, maybe not.
Doesn't matter.
We're self-sufficient here.
I don't need you or your friend
complicating our lives.
Is that clear?
That fence has got a year on it, tops.
Galvanized wire
already started to corrode.
I can get you 10 spools
of high-tensile aluminum.
Last you the rest of your life.
Lives.
-Are you sure about this?
-Yeah. It's not a gift.
-You'll come back, we'll trade.
-All right.
And I had this idea that we should
use codes for the radio
in case anyone's listening.
That's a good idea.
Like, with what?
I was thinking, like, the decades.
-Like, '80s, trouble, of course.
-Yeah.
'70s...
FEDRA's never gonna come up here.
And you're well-protected
against stray Infected.
But sooner or later, there'll be raiders.
And they'll beat that fence
and your tripwires.
They'll come at night,
quiet and armed.
We'll be fine.
THREE YEARS LATER
-Pick it up.
-Hey, I can't.
Just one more loop around.
I got something to show you.
Not that.
Nearly there.
You can make it.
What?
It's okay.
-Ready?
-Yes.
I traded Joel and Tess
one of your guns for a packet of seeds.
Which gun?
A little one.
I'm sorry.
For what?
Gettin' older faster than you.
I like you older.
Older means we're still here.
What?
I was never afraid before you showed up.
Not on the strawberries.
Right.
Shit.
Bill!
Bill?
Bill! Bill!
Get inside!
-No!
-We gotta get you inside.
-No! No! No!
-Bill, inside, now! Hold on to me.
I gotcha. I gotcha.
Okay.
There we go.
Okay, okay. We got this.
We got this.
You hold your hand there for me?
Hold, hold your hand there.
Frank.
-Frank!
-I'm right here.
-Frank, leave the gas on!
-I'm right here. I'm right here.
-Leave the gas on.
The fence,
the fence'll kill the rest of 'em.
Okay, yep.
I made a list for you.
Tell me about the list.
I have copies of all the keys.
Good.
Call Joel.
You can't be here alone.
Well, I'm not alone.
-You're here.
-No.
Call Joel.
-Okay, here we go.
-No.
-It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
-Call Joel. Call Joel.
-He'll take care of ya.
-There we go.
Okay.
Bill?
Bill.
It's getting cold.
Okay.
-Let me bring ya inside.
-Yeah.
Okay. There we go.
TEN YEARS LATER
Okay?
-We'll get you warmed up.
-Yeah.
-Did you take your pills?
-No.
One orangey,
a little whitey, and a big roundy.
Took most of the night.
I'm exhausted.
Goddamnit.
You gotta be kidding me.
I don't want you fallin' asleep
in the chair.
-I won't.
-You will, and then your feet get blue.
-Bill--
-I'm not fighting about it.
-Back in bed.
-I promise you, I'm gonna stay up.
-Why?
-'Cause this is my last day.
What,
what if we find a doctor?
What if someone shows up who can help?
Who's coming, Bill?
The door-to-door MRI salesman?
There wasn't anything to cure this
before the world fell apart.
I've made up my mind.
Bill.
Come here.
Well, I'm not gonna give you the
"every day was a wonderful gift from God"
speech.
I've had a lot of bad days.
I've had bad days with you, too.
But I've had more good days with you
than with anyone else.
Just give me one more good day.
Starting now. Make me some toast.
Then take me to the boutique,
where I'll pick outfits for us.
You'll wear what I ask,
and we'll get married.
And you'll cook a delicious dinner.
Then you will crush all of these up,
put them in my wine.
I will drink it.
Then you will take me by my hand,
bring me to our bed,
and I will fall asleep in your arms.
I can't.
Do you love me?
Yes.
Then love me the way I want you to.
MAIN ST
BEAUJOLAIS VILLAGES
Will it be enough?
Yeah.
Were there already pills in the bottle?
Enough to kill a horse.
This isn't the tragic suicide
at the end of the play.
I'm old.
I'm satisfied.
And you were my purpose.
I do not support this.
I should be furious.
But from an objective point of view,
it's incredibly romantic.
Take me to bed.
WELCOME TO LINCOLN
SETTLED IN 1764
Stay there.
DANGER
HIGH VOLTAGE
-What the fuck?
-Bill?
Frank?
You stay there.
Ya hear anything, you see anything,
yell.
What if they're gone?
Ellie?
It's from Bill.
"To whomever, but probably Joel."
I figured I fell under "whomever."
Came with this.
So they're dead?
You wanna?
Go ahead. You do it.
"August 29, 2023.
"If you find this,
please do not come into the bedroom.
"We left a window open
so the house wouldn't smell,
"but it will probably be a sight.
"I'm guessing you found this, Joel,
"because anyone else
would've been electrocuted
"or blown up by one of my traps.
Hehehehehehehehe.
"Take anything you need.
"The bunker code is the same
as the gate code but in reverse.
"Anyway, I never liked you,
"but still,
it's like we're friends, almost.
"And I respect you.
"So, I'm gonna tell you something
because you're probably
"the only person who will understand.
"I used to hate the world
and I was happy when everyone died.
"But I was wrong, because there was
one person worth saving.
"That's what I did.
"I saved him.
"Then I protected him.
"That's why men like you and me are here.
"We have a job to do,
"and God help any motherfuckers
who stand in our way.
"I leave you all of my weapons
and equipment.
Use them to keep--"
TO KEEP TESS SAFE
Stay here.
SULF
Show me your arm.
I just finished makin' a truck battery.
It's charging right now.
-Okay.
-And I have a brother out in Wyoming.
He's in some kinda trouble,
and I'm heading out there to find him.
He used to be a Firefly.
And my guess is he knows
where some of them are out there.
Maybe they can get you
to wherever this lab is.
All right.
Listen, about Tess.
If I'm takin' you with me,
there's some rules you gotta follow.
Rule one, you don't bring up Tess. Ever.
Matter of fact, we can just
keep our histories to ourselves.
Rule two,
you don't tell anyone about your
condition.
They see that bite mark,
they won't think it through.
They'll just shoot you.
Rule three,
you do what I say when I say it.
-We clear?
-Yes.
Repeat it.
What you say goes.
Okay.
So what now?
We grab what we can.
Ho-ly shit.
This guy was a genius.
Why was the music on?
If he didn't reset the countdown
every few weeks,
this playlist would run over the radio.
'80s.
Grab some cans from over there.
Nothin' dented or swollen.
-Dude.
-No.
There's a wall of them.
WOMAN'S SHIRTS
SM - MED
ALL PURPOSE
CHARGER
Needs another hour.
They have hot water!
I'm takin' a shower.
And then you're showering
because seriously.
Oh shit.
Well, don't you look pretty.
Shut up.
Nice.
-It's your first time in a car?
-It's like a spaceship.
No, it's like a piece of shit Chevy S10,
but it'll get us there, I think.
Seatbelt.
So cool.
Would ya leave it?
Put it back.
Ellie.
Oh, no, wait.
No, leave it. Leave it.
This is good. This is Linda Ronstadt.
Do you know who Linda Ronstadt is?
You know I don't know
who Linda Ronstadt is.
Oh, man.
It's better than nothing.